
.\" ManPage for t5html
.\" date: 02/09/23
.TH man 1 "09 February 2023" "t5html man page"


.SH NAME
.\" ====
t5html \- creates a HTML-document from a text-file in t5html-form.


.SH SYNOPSIS
.\" ========
t5html [text-file]


.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" ===========
T5HTML allows fast html-prototyping by using an abbreviated pseudo-html syntax.
.SS T5HTML-Syntax
A T5HTML file consists normally of an import, macro and tree-definition part.
.PP
Each Line is parsed separately, but there are special symbols, which allow
the continuation ("..") or breaking up ("|", "<", ">") of a line.
.PP
The indentation in the tree part defines the nesting-level and parent-child
relationship.
.PP
.SS Comment
Lines beginning with '##' are comments.
.SS Verbatim
Lines beginning with '!!' will be unchanged in the translation.
.SS Imports
@@ filename from path
.IP
imports a file named "filename" from the directory specified by "path".
.PP
At the moment only macro-definitions are imported.
.SS Macros
Macros are defined by an assignment operator ":=". Left hand side is the
macroname, which must be all uppercase. On the right hand of the assignment
operator is the replacement text, to which every occurrence of MACRONAME will be
expanded. 
.IP
MACRONAME := Left hand is expanded to right side.
Macros will not be expanded recursively.


.\" --
.SH OPTIONS
.\" =======
At the moment there are no command line options, except the filename of the to
be translated file.


.SH EXAMPLES
.\" ========
.SS INDENTATION
Embedded and normal indentations:
.EX
.IP
p#textnode-example > "Text-nodes start with a leading double-quote.
.IP
p#textnode-example
   "Text-nodes start with a leading double-quote.
.EE
.PP
Translates to:
.EX
.IP
<p id="textnode-example">Text-nodes start with a leading double-quote.</p>
.EE
.PP
For more examples see the github-page or the provided examples under
doc/examples.


.SH BUGS
.\" ====
.nf
As of current, 9. Feb 2023, no major bug is known.
.PP
Bugs may be reported over github:
.UR https://github.com/Exsplendor/t5html
.UE
.PP
or eMail:
Splendor <oi.atut@rodnelps> (eMail reversed)
.fi
.\" vi: set ft=groff et sw=4 ts=4 spell spelllang=en cc=80:
